---
layout: post
title:  "How to work with Git without remote server"
date:   2016-07-31 21:00:00 +0800
categories: git local
---

Hello developers,

Did you encounter once that you want to work with git repository locally only without hosting your code in any online service such as Github?
I wanted to do it today and found it not well-documented so I will guide you through my experience.

First locate the folder that will contain your working directory. In my current example, it will be `/users/zaatar/developer`.

1. Open terminal and go to the destination directory: `cd /users/zaatar/developer`
2. Create a new folder that will be your git working directory: `mkdir HelloWorld`
3. Go into this directory `cd HelloWorld`
4. Initialize your local git repository: `git init --bare` 
5. Add the local remote to your repository so you can checkout and push from it: `git remote add origin /users/zaatar/developer/HelloWorld`
6. Create your own new master branch: `git checkout -b master`

That's it! now you can now push and pull from it.

Now, you can work with your repository as it has a remote server. But it actually doesn't have a remote one. The server of this repository is a local one hosted in the folder. 

Tips:
- Note, doing this command `git init --bare`  without `--bare` option will create a repository with a remote server. So, you have to define it later.
- If you have already a repository and want to change the server from being remote to a local one? or if you want to change your current git local server, use: `git remote set-url origin NEW_FOLDER`
- If you want to know where is the server folder is located: `git remote -v`